# EDS 223 Assignment 4: Wind Power Potential - Group 22

**Authors:** Grace Kumaishi and Julia Parish

**Due Date:** 2021-12-03 23:59PM

## Project Goal
This assignment task is to evaluate the maximum potential annual wind energy production available to the state of Iowa. We will be evaluating the number of megawatt hours (MWh) that would be generated by placing as many 3.45 MW wind turbines as possible on all potentially appropriate sites. 

## Project Purpose

This project seeks to: 
* Identify all land suitable for wind turbine placement, subject to the siting constraints assigned.
* Calculate the area suitable for wind production for each wind data polyon.
* Calculate the number of wind turbines that could be placed in each polygon.<br>
Assume:<br>
  - Vestas V136-3.45 MW turbines.<br>
  - 150 m hub height.<br>
  - Turbine towers must be at least 7 rotor diameters apart.<br>
  - Use this data to calculate the total energy production.<br>
* Calculate the total annual energy production that would be realized by the maximum possible number of new turbines.

## Installation 

Packages required for this project:
* pandas
* geopandas
* gpxpy
* numpy
* sqlalchemy
* pyscopg2

## Data
All spatial data has been projected into EPSG:26975

Feature data was in a PostGIS database, osmiowa, on the UCSB server and all data, except for the wind data, have been extracted from OpenStreetMap.

## Results

**Total Potential Wind Turbines - Secenario 1 (Residential 3H):**<br>
57,285.95

**Total Potential Wind Turbines - Secenario 1 ( Residential 10H):**<br>
52,053.23

**Total Iowa Energy Production - Secenario 1 (Residential 3H):**<br>
1,064,159.97 GWh/y

**Total Iowa Energy Production - Secenario 2 (Residential 10H):**<br>
966,965.52 GWh/y

## References

Friends Against Wind. 2014. The 10H rule in Bavaria. Accessed 2021-11-26.

Sliz-Szkliniarz, B. (2019). Assessing the cost of onshore wind development scenarios_ Modelling of spatial and temporal distribution of wind power for the case of Poland. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 18.

Wehrmann, B. 2019. Design of Germany's wind power distance rules undecided as opposition to policy grows. Clean Energy Wire. Accessed 2021-11-26.
